[INAUDIBLE]
So our goal is to, right now, we're going to roast the coffee.
Our cats already started roasting the coffee
from Alberto from yesterday, so that we can all
try it together tomorrow.
And then the other goal was to try out Joey's new machine,
because he hasn't used it yet.
So it gives us an opportunity to talk about sample roasting,
and what we're trying to look at.
So does anyone sample roast? We roast our own.
Of course the roasters, we also roast. You guys too?
We sample roast.
Anikawa?
Ah, okay. So you have anikawa.
No tengo un ekawa, pero si, esto es.
Okay.
¿Quién no tiene ekawa?
Who has ekawa?
You?
(speaking in foreign language)
- This is the very first batch this roaster's ever done,
so we're gonna throw it away.
- First pancake.
Also, if you wanna take some of the green,
let us know, we got three pounds.
Now we have some plastic bags and we can start to divide up.
So Nick will give you some coffee to start just sorting and cleaning.
Just taking any defects, any chips, any insect damage.
Really dark, black, or sour coffee.
- Does the vertical view,
do you find the vertical view painful?
Like it's just not representative of...
- I mean, here, will you do me a favor with that?
You and Mac are both squared,
and then I'll do another one over there.
- Just surprising,
but I don't know how much it's affecting the fan speed and like how accurate the fan speeds are.
I'm worried if it's like surging heat a little bit or dropping heat.
It seems pretty it seems like it's pretty consistent.
(indistinct chatter)
(murmuring)
[Water flowing]
(indistinct chatter)
light and bold.
[ Background noise ]
Yeah, just clean whatever I mean anything that's very ugly
Has black okay, so insect damage, okay?
Yeah
It's okay
**I THINK I HEAR SOMETHING OVER HERE**
[ Background noise ]
[Spanish]
[inaudible]
(crowd chattering)
(people chattering)
(speaking in foreign language)
- Maybe dump it anyway so we can try it.
(I don't know what he's saying here)
[ Inaudible ]
There's more clean.
- We're gonna finish.
- Oh.
We just need 50 grams right now.
I was gonna say 50.
- I'm just saying clean to give,
oh, why take dirty, why take more weight
for coffee to sort out?
- I'm just saying why we're rating
if you clean the coffee than people are gonna take with them.
(speaking in foreign language)
- You can take 50.
- Yeah, yeah, he got it from.
- Put your defects in here.
- She says it's a good way.
[ Background noise ]
>> I understand.
and Tianda.
[ Background noise ]
So just anything that looks like black.
Is that that?
That's that, right?
[ Background noise ]
[ Multiple speakers ]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[inaudible]
[ Inaudible ]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
as big as the world,
when like, if I look at it,
and I was going to say,
that is yellow,
right?
But you're going to say,
that's green.
If I look at it,
and I say that's green.
Well, only in the sense
that I can't really detect.
It's going to,
like no matter what,
it's going to be yellow.
Because it's the,
I guess the point of the designation
is that it no longer has,
like, the voice of Sloth-Tek,
so when it is yellow,
that it like,
is,
it's going to be
a little bit more
like,
[inaudible]
There are also different genres in the world.
What's the story?
That's like the same.
[inaudible]
I do just cut to tell the change.
So like, sometimes people are just saying,
"Oh, this is what this is about."
[inaudible]
And different hobbies can be very different to some stories.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Some, especially super, super high.
It's like cross-custom things.
There are lines that are larger than you're supposed to be.
He was talking about the little ones that are extra large.
Like the one with the little cross-customs.
Sounds right.
And the little M-word one.
Oh, there's a dog.
Like, Pennsylvania.
Yeah.
Yeah, but...
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
percentage that I can weigh it, it still doesn't seem like as much.
I think.
Find a machine.
Thank you.
Oh my gosh, sweet.
(students talking)
[ Inaudible ]
and I have to adjust apparently.
(speaking in foreign language)
I think there's also,
So it's not separated from the mirrors?
Like, in your room?
Yeah, exhaust profile settings,
draft and fan temperature settings.
So that more and more people have access to the exhaust
and the draft.
So it's not sorted.
I'm not a simulator, but we know that I am.
(inaudible)
No, I mean, the little tiny ones.
(murmuring)
(chattering)
- It could also be that, I mean, the account isn't good
at anticipating what this coffee's gonna do.
So it could be that it was just giving it
a little too much power,
and then this coffee kinda like took with it.
Yeah.
- Very clean, and then,
bread in here, turn the heat on.
- Yeah.
Well, it looks like it surged,
and then it came back down.
- Yeah.
[Street noise]
(people chattering)
[Spanish]
[Machine sounds]
yeah
(people chattering)
[INAUDIBLE]
(crowd murmuring)
(people chattering)
(laughing)
(speaking in foreign language)
(coughing)
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[Unclear dialogue]
[UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
(indistinct chatter)
I don't think that much. More of it is food.
You need to go to the bathroom.
I do.
I don't have a number for that.
But it's free.
What's free?
The process.
Oh, I got it.
And then you can just put it in your bag and it'll get taken out whenever they want to change it.
Oh, yeah.
[inaudible]
Yes.
Okay.
[BELL RINGING]
[CHATTER]
Can you guys share what profile you're using or why?
We're using a profile that we've adjusted for high altitude.
Do we need some extra back up?
Do you need some extra backup or...
Um...
We can go and talk about the profile if it's...
No, I mean if you...
I'm using a profile, a curve that's very...
It's for...
A very high height.
And that's why...
The speed of the fan is very, very high.
Like 86%.
(speaking in foreign language)
- Shack in here.
Kayla, this is Samantha's copy.
For you to take.
Maybe make a little note that it's,
there's this coffee, 200 hours, cherry,
and then you wash.
You want one too?
You need how much?
100?
That's 200.
So another 200 for you.
[INAUDIBLE]
(speaking in foreign language)
It's a badge.
It has a filter for the light.
Yes, well, yes.
It's a different one.
It's a 102.
It's necessary.
What?
The lens.
Yes.
To test the house or...
With the cafeteria.
Yes.
[ Inaudible ]
>> Who else would like some [inaudible]
[ Background noise ]
>> Do you rest?
>> Yeah, there's enough.
We don't have Cafe Logic either. Do you know this?
It's a new sample roaster. I think it's from Australia.
It's new.
Where's anyone else from?
Oh, hi! No one else is really.
Similar, but it seems different.
It's different. I think it's a better price and better function.
(speaking in foreign language)
- You wanna see this is what we're gonna taste tomorrow?
In Instagram.
Add a little bit.
Humberto's coffee, anybody else for roasting?
Joey?
And then the next one.
C-A-F-F-A.
C-A-F-F-A-F-A-A.
L-A-O.
O-T-I-E.
(speaking in foreign language)
(people chatting)
- Gotta pay attention.
(speaking in foreign language)
(people chattering)
- Are you trying different profiles or only one?
- No, just the same one.
(speaking in foreign language)
I don't know how they let us use it first.
I always like to use new things.
So I'm just like, yes, yes.
Sit down, have a good little time.
Definitely the opposite of trying to do it.
Oh yeah?
Yeah.
Well, when it comes to technology, I like it.
You touch it.
[LAUGHTER]
Make sure it's safe.
I got a new screen protector for my iPad.
You do it.
[LAUGHTER]
I couldn't even do it.
I'm like, I want to open it so slowly so I can get every--
Every moment of doing this.
[LAUGHTER]
Appreciate the beauty.
They're watching it.
I think just another 30 seconds in the roast and then two minutes to smell.
It's hard for me to imagine a journey or coffee thing, watching a roast turkey in real time.
Watching the roast turkey.
But not even watching the roast turkey.
Not even watching the roast turkey.
Wow.
Moving the thing.
(laughing)
- I like the lemon.
- With a watermelon.
- It's like a scene in, I think it's like Ocean's 12
or Ocean's 13, he's like blowing up
and it's behind him and he's watching the TV
instead of the actual--
- The actual thing that's happening, yeah.
(laughing)
- Real quick, you guys, the coffee,
the yeast coffee that's on the raised bed,
so you may have noticed that there used to be three beds
and now there's just the one raised bed.
- We're doing a triple fermentation.
- No.
(laughing)
This is more of a, again, do as we say,
not as we do because this coffee cannot be, there's no time to dry this coffee for us.
This coffee is going to be sold wet. It's going to be sold anonymously to the co-op
and they buy it by weight. So they sell, or we're going to sell wet parchment. And because
they know that it's wet and they're not doing any quality, they just take half of the weight
as water. So if we're drying it, then we're just losing money because they're just going
reduce the weight in half. So we're re-soaking it to absorb water so that when we sell it
we can make like four pennies more. So but we're saving one bin that I want to clean really really
well and then just like this green you guys can take a sample finish drying at home and then you
can have some of the yeast coffee. So hopefully over the next another 24 hours we'll get stable
People announce that you can just put it in your bag and dry it.
It is drying in your oven if you're in the Netherlands.
Yeah, you can take a little bit of the citric too.
Since we have so much less of that, like the yeast is for everybody.
And then the citric, I need to taste the two comparisons.
So we can divvy some of that up, but not as much as the yeast.
[INAUDIBLE]
I'm curious, is there any--
--customs statement going into the US?
Is it considered an agricultural product?
Yeah.
Yeah, you're going to hide it, try to pass it off as roasted coffee.
Like, don't tell anyone what you're doing.
You didn't visit any farms while you were here.
[LAUGHTER]
the most sketch
but this one is dried properly already, right?
this one?
this one dried properly
yeah, that's nice
What is this?
Here, I can take it to the trash.
Thank you very much.
(speaking in foreign language)
(people chattering)
(chattering)
(speaking in foreign language)
(speaking in Spanish)
- Never screw the first screw on the bottom of the roof.
There is a screw on the bottom of the gun and a screw that will...
We have like one in here.
The San Marcos.
San Marcos?
Never.
Never take the screws out?
No.
But this last piece, it like...
The magnets are really, really strong, but you can just pull it off.
When it's cooled off.
To clean.
Yeah, to clean it.
It'll create so much dust you can't see it.
So every like five to ten rows, take a break, clean it.
I've also had a friend who like accidentally like pulled it off and was like, "Oh my god, I broke the roaster!"
But it's not broken, it's just very strong magnets that can be removed.
And also like, clean more frequently than you think you need to clean.
Often.
Really, really often.
If you don't, it's just like, "Oh man, it's just a pain in the ass."
How many rows?
I've given a wipe down after every session, but don't go more than 20.
Because then it just gets difficult.
The more gunk is on it, the more difficult it is to clean.
So if you can do preventative maintenance, it's a lot easier to maintain.
(students chatting)
- Are they freaked out?
- Yeah, it's like the last piece came off
and they're like, "Oh no, no."
It's okay, it's okay.
(speaking in foreign language)
- So you guys, I'm gonna do the Spanish session right now
for maybe like an hour, so English can come back at four.
I mean, you can hang out, but.
(laughing)